This repository provides Stata and R code for two tutorials for using Monte Carlo simulations for quantitative bias analysis: the first example is bias due to confounding and the second example is collider-stratification bias. 

* For each causal structure of interest, there are three files (.do files for Stata and .R files for R): <br>
a. data generation and analysis file <br>
b. parameter input file <br> 
c. run simulation file

* The data generation and analysis file generates one data set, analyzes the generated data, and stores the parameter estimates from analyses as scalars. 

* The parameter input file lists the input parameters that are read into the data generation process. Users can update the input parameters as desired. For example, the default code is under the sharp null (no causal effect of the exposure (A) on the outcome (Y) for any individual in the population). To modify the simulation so there is a causal effect of A on Y, modify parameter "b1" in the data generation and analysis file. 

* The run simulation file calls the data generation and analysis file B times to generate and analyze B data sets, stores the results from each iteration of dataset generation, summarizes the results across the B data sets, and exports the results for each iteration of sample generation in a .dta file and .csv file in the Stata scripts and .csv file in the R scripts (one sample = one row in the file). Output files are written to the Data folder. Plots generated by the scripts are written to the Plots folder.
